README.md, before:

# delegate

Embedded friendly std::function alternative. Never heap alloc, no exceptions. Is
trivially_copyable.

## Overview

The 'delegate' is an include only embedded friendly alternative to std::function.
The main purpose is to store callable things such as free functions, member functions, 
and functors. Once stored, the delegate can be called without knowledge of the
type of stored thing.

The delegate guarantees no heap allocation. In will never throw exceptions itself.
Intended use is as general callback storage (think function pointer analog).
The price to pay is that the delegate only stores a pointer to referenced functor
objects or objects to call member functions on. 
The user needs to handle the lifetime of a referred object.

In addition, the delegation object has a smaller footprint compared to common std::function 
implementations, using only 2 pointers (free function pointer and void pointer).
It avoids virtual dispatch internally. That results in small object code footprint and
allows the optimizer to see through part of the call. This also means it fulfills the requirements
for being trivially_copyable, meaning it can safely be memcpy:d between objects.
See e.g. [documentation on trivially copyable](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/types/is_trivially_copyable).

A video with a presentation about motivation and examples about the used 
call mechanism can be [found at reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/a6yg5g/mikael_rosbacke_embedded_friendly_stdfunction/). It is given for an earlier version, but the major parts are still valid. The presentation is [here](https://slides.com/mikaelrosbacke/delegates#/).

Detailed [delegate API documentation is here](doc/delegate.md). 

## Quick start
- clone the repo.
- Add include path <repo_root>/include
- In program '#include "delegate/delegate.hpp"'
- Use the 'delegate' template class.

Example use case:

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"
    
    struct Example {
        static void staticFkn(int) {};
        void memberFkn(int) {};
    };

    int main() 
    {
        Example e;
        delegate<void(int)> del;
    
        del.set<&Example::memberFkn>(e); // C++17
        del.set<Example, &Example::memberFkn>(e); // C++11,C++14
        del(123);
    
        del.set<Example::staticFkn>();
        del(456);
    }


## Design goals driving the design

  * Should behave close to a normal function pointer.
    Small, efficient, no heap allocation, no exceptions.
    Does not keep track of referred object lifetime.
    
  * Implement type erasure. The delegate needs to only contain
    enough type information to do a call. Additional type information
    should be hidden from the one instantiating a delegate object.

  * Support several call mechanisms. Supports:
    - Call to a member function.
    - Call to a free function.
    - Call to a functor (by reference).
    - Call to a stateless lambda.
    - Extra call operations such as passing on a stored void pointer.
    
  * It is always safe to call the delegate. In the null state, a call will not
    do anything and return a default constructed return value.
    
  * Behave like a normal pointer type. Can be copied, compared for equality,
    called, and compared to nullptr.
    
  * Observe constness. Stored const objects references can only be called by
    by const member functions or via operator() const.
    
  * Delegate have two main way to set a function to be called:
    - set: Member function for setting a new value to an already existing delegate.
    - make: Static functions for constructing new delegate objects.
    Do note that constructors aren't used for function setup. See discussion later
    on why.
    
  * Be usable with C++11 while offering more functionality for later editions.
    - C++11 offer most functionality.
    - C++14 add constexpr on 'set' functions.
    - C++17 allow for simpler member function setup using template&lt;auto&gt;.
    
  * Discourage lifetime issues. Will not allow storing a reference to a temporary
    (rvalue-reference) to objects.
    
  * Be constexpr and exception friendly. As much as possible should be declared constexpr and noexcept. 
  
## mem_fkn (Prev. MemFkn)

A helper class to store a call to a member function without supplying an actual object to call on. It is a stand-alone class that can encapsulate a member function.
It has an 'invoke' member which accept an object and the stored member function is
called on that object, similar to std::invoke.
It can be stored, compared and copied around. Could e.g. be set up
in an std::map for lookup and later supplied an object to be called on.
mem_fkn uses a single free function pointer for storage and behaves as a standard value type.
It could be useful on its own to avoid having to deal with member pointer syntax in user code.

The main intended use is as an argument to delegate. A mem_fkn and an object can be given to the delegate class to tie an object to the member function and later the delegate
can be called in the normal way. mem_fkn offers a way to delay the combination of
the object and the member function name.
mem_fkn require more type information compared to delegate. In addition, to call the signature it requires the type of the object to call on and a bool to signal if the functions stored
is a const method.

Detailed [API for mem_fkn](doc/mem_fkn.md).

## Delegate examples

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    int testFkn(int x)
    {
       return x + 1;
    }

    int main()
    {
        // Only need to know enough type information to construct
        // the signature used during a call of the delegate. E.g.

        delegate<int(int)> del;
        int res = del(23);  // No delegate set, do default behavior.
        // res is now 0.

        if (!del)  // del return false if no fkn is stored. 
            del.set<testFkn>(); // Set a new function to be called.

        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 2.
    }

The base case for free functions is covered above. For member functions see below.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    struct Test
    {
        int member(int x)
        { return x + 2; }
        int cmember(int x) const
        { return x + 3; }
    };

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del;
        Test t;
        const Test ct;

        del.set<Test, &Test::member>(t);
        int res = del(1);
        // res is now 3.

        del.set<Test, &Test::cmember>(ct);
        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 4.
        
        // For C++17, we can deduce the object type, the following will work.
        del.set<&Test::member>(t);
        del.set<&Test::cmember>(ct);
        // ...
    }

For functors, the delegate expects the user to keep them alive.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    struct TestF
    {
        int operator()(int x)
        { return x + 2; }
        int operator()(int x) const
        { return x + 3; }
    };

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del;
        TestF t;
        const TestF ct;

        del.set(t);
        int res = del(1); 
        // res is now 3.

        del.set(ct);
        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 4.
    }

The delegate can rely on stateless lambdas to convert to function pointers. In this
case, we use runtime storage of the function pointer. Do note it will be less
easy for the compiler to optimize compared to a fully static setup.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    int testFkn(int x)
    {
       return x + 5;
    }

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del;

        del.set(testFkn);
        int res = del(1); 
        // res is now 6.

        del.set(static_cast<int(*)(int)>([](int x) -> int { return x + 6; }));
        res = del(1);
        // res is now 7.

        // Or, use 'set_fkn' to get implicit conversion.
        del.set_fkn([](int x) -> int { return x + 7; });
        res = del(1);
        // res is now 8.
    }

For the runtime case, there is no constructor template argument to give,
So delegate supports passing in a compatible free function pointer. This
will accept stateless lambdas also via function pointer conversion.
There is no lifetime issue with stateless lambdas.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    int testFkn(int x)
    {
       return x + 5;
    }

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del{testFkn};
        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 6.

         auto del2 = delegate<int(int)>{ [](int x) -> int { return x + 6; } };
        res = del2(1);
        // res is now 7.
    }

Except for the set function, one can use 'make' static functions to build delegate
objects directly. The most common one given below.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    // .. types as before.

    int main()
    {
        using Del = delegate<int(int)>;
        Del del;

        Test t;  // For members.
        TestF functor; // For functor.

        del = Del::make<testFkn>();
        del = Del::make<Test, &Test::member>(t);
        del = Del::make<&Test::member>(t); // C++17

        del = Del::make(functor);

        del = Del::make(static_cast<int(*)(int)>([](int x) -> int 
                 { return x + 6; }));
        del = Del::make_fkn([](int x) -> int { return x + 6; });
    }

## Aid for porting legacy code

The delegate offer some extra set/make functions to aid in porting legacy code.
You can make a delegate call a free function with either a void* first argument,
or an explicit first argument object. This argument is given by the delegate
internal context pointer. e.g:

    struct Test {
        int member(int x)
        { return x + 2; }
    };
    
    int fknWithObject(Test& obj, int val) 
    { return obj.member(val); }
    
    int fknWithVoid(void* ctx, int val) 
    { return static_cast<Test*>(ctx)->member(val); }
    
    int main() 
    {
        Test obj;
        delegate<int(int)> del;

        del.set_free_with_void<fknWithVoid>(static_cast<void*>(&obj));
        int res = del(1);
        // res is now == 3.
        
        del.set_free_with_object<Test, fknWithObject>(obj));
        res = del(2);
        // res is now == 4.
     }

This allows you to replace legacy callbacks one step at a time. 
You can make a driver use delegates while the user code still uses void* context pointers.
It should allow for a decoupled refactoring of the driver/user code.
These have the same const behavior and set/make variants as the rest of the setup functions.
We use longer names to ease refactoring.

## Extending with custom wrapper function

Especially lecacy code can have weird calling conventions in their legacy callbacks.
The delegate allow you to write external 'make' functions with their own custom
adapter function. The adpater gets access to the stored void* pointer and can then freely
use the void pointer and the parameters from the call.
The wrapper function must follow the calling convention used internally in the delegate
Example from the test suite where the private stateless lambda act as an adapter function:

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"  
    
    delegate<int(int)> make_exchange(int& store)
    {
        using Del = delegate<int(int)>;
        typename Del::Trampoline adapterFkn = [](const typename Del::DataPtr& v,
                                                 int val) -> int 
        {
            int* p = static_cast<int*>(v.ptr());
            std::swap(*p, val);
            return val;
        };
        return Del{adapterFkn, static_cast<void*>(&store)};
    }
    
    TEST(delegate, use_extension)
    {
        int t = 2;
        delegate<int(int)> del = make_exchange(t);
        EXPECT_EQ(t, 2);
        EXPECT_EQ(del(5), 2);
        EXPECT_EQ(t, 5);
    }

## Using a custom namespace for delegate

Currently the delegate and mem_fkn classes are placed in the global namespace.
The header file does not include anything else so it is possible to
include it into another namespace. The unit test checks this and seems to work.

## Performance and code generation

For the moment there are no proper measurement on timing. What has been done
is to just paste in the delegate code into [compiler explorer](https://godbolt.org/)
and look at the assembly output. The setup used gcc 7.2.1 on ARM compiling for Cortex-M4
and -O2 optimization.

In general using static template setup compared to a runtime pointer allow the compiler to generate
smaller code. Some specific notes:

- If the compiler can see the target function body, it can inline it within the wrapper function and in that case, directly jump to the useful code.
- Without arguments, the wrapper functions becomes one assembly instruction to just
forward the branch in all cases.
- With additional arguments:
  - Member functions: No resuffling is needed, one extra instruction to load the _this_ pointer.
  - Functors: No resuffling is needed, one extra instruction to load the _this_ pointer.
  - Free functions: Some argument reshuffling is needed unless the target can be inlined.
  - Runtime free functions: Resuffling is needed in the common wrapper function.
  - Extra void/object set methods, no reshuffling is needed. Just load the pointer.

- Testing callables for equal etc is often reduced down to comparing pointers. With the static
  setup this can often be a compile time calculation.

So in most cases you should get decent code generation. In the case of free, non-inlined
functions it is worth considering to just use an ordinary function pointer unless the
extra generality is needed.

## A note on skipping constructors

Not using constructors to set up functions is due to how a template 
arguments are used.
The delegate require class template arguments for the class and then
function address argument for the set/make function template.

Doing this with a constructor means the user needs to supply both
the class and constructor argument at the same time.
The syntax (if it is even possible) is not run of the mill.

Using a static member function it becomes easier:

    auto del = delegate<int(int)>::make<freeFkn>();

    // Pseudocode for constructor alternative:
    auto del = delegate<int(int)> /* some way to get <freeFkn> */ ();

The price to pay for normal static member function is the extra '::make'.
Another reason is that you can 'borrow' type information.

    auto del = delegate<int(int)>{};
    auto del2 = del.make<freeFkn>();

For normal runtime variables, there is no constructor template type to
pass, so delegate does support passing in a runtime variable function pointer
of the right signature. It also allows implicit conversion from stateless lambdas
in this case.

### Alternative make_delegate free function

In the spirit of smart pointer, one could use 'make_delegate' to construct a 
delegate. However, there is one thing to keep in mind. 
The address of a function is given by the combination of the signature and
the name. Hence make delegate would need to take both. E.g.

    auto del = make_delegate<int(int), freeFkn>();

Omitting the signature could work, but would be ambiguous as soon as the function is overloaded, severely affecting maintainability.
This will not offer extra functionality over using the 'make' functions
so there is currently no effort in supporting this.

## Do not take the address of things in std

In C and traditional C++, function pointers and taking function addresses are normal operation. Do note it can affect maintainability of your code.
In particular, it is not allowed to take the address of functions
(member/free functions) in std. The standard only allows calls, not taking the address of callables in std. 
It allows the implementation to change a free function
into e.g. a functor in a compatible way.

In general, taking the address will tie down your implementation to the
current presented interface. It will also prevent adding default arguments.

So, when starting to pass around pointers to callable things, keep this in mind.
It works, it will continue to work but do plan for future maintenance.

From a technical side, using the template method used here, we do not actually
take the address. It wraps the supplied call into a free function and stores an address
to that. Hence we take an address of a user-defined free function.
Still, when the standard changes a free function into a functor you will still
have the same issue. Only now, the template pattern matching fails instead of
the compiler failing to find the right function.
To get scared, see [Titus Winters talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWvSSsKCiAw)
on what can go wrong.

Delegate does require you to specify signature before accepting a function name
so the worst problems becoming ambiguous when adding new functions should
be mitigated.

So normal engineering practices are still valid. Decide on what you consider
foreign code, put adapters on it so you have a single point to change when
it changes. Decide what you consider stable/key interfaces in your code and let that
be used more freely.

Commit message:

Ensure delegate can be used with std::function. Document that a delegate fit within SSO for std::function.

README.md, after:

# delegate

Embedded friendly std::function alternative. Never heap alloc, no exceptions. Is
trivially_copyable.

## Overview

The 'delegate' is an include only embedded friendly alternative to std::function.
The main purpose is to store callable things such as free functions, member functions, 
and functors. Once stored, the delegate can be called without knowledge of the
type of stored thing.

The delegate guarantees no heap allocation. In will never throw exceptions itself.
Intended use is as general callback storage (think function pointer analog).
The price to pay is that the delegate only stores a pointer to referenced functor
objects or objects to call member functions on. 
The user needs to handle the lifetime of a referred object.

In addition, the delegation object has a smaller footprint compared to common std::function 
implementations, using only 2 pointers (free function pointer and void pointer).
This is small enough so that a delegate stored inside a std::function will use
small object optimization on both clang and gcc.

It avoids virtual dispatch internally. That results in small object code footprint and
allows the optimizer to see through part of the call. This also means it fulfills the requirements
for being trivially_copyable, meaning it can safely be memcpy:d between objects.
See e.g. [documentation on trivially copyable](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/types/is_trivially_copyable).

A video with a presentation about motivation and examples about the used 
call mechanism can be [found at reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/a6yg5g/mikael_rosbacke_embedded_friendly_stdfunction/). It is given for an earlier version, but the major parts are still valid. The presentation is [here](https://slides.com/mikaelrosbacke/delegates#/).

Detailed [delegate API documentation is here](doc/delegate.md). 

## Quick start
- clone the repo.
- Add include path <repo_root>/include
- In program '#include "delegate/delegate.hpp"'
- Use the 'delegate' template class.

Example use case:

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"
    
    struct Example {
        static void staticFkn(int) {};
        void memberFkn(int) {};
    };

    int main() 
    {
        Example e;
        delegate<void(int)> del;
    
        del.set<&Example::memberFkn>(e); // C++17
        del.set<Example, &Example::memberFkn>(e); // C++11,C++14
        del(123);
    
        del.set<Example::staticFkn>();
        del(456);
    }


## Design goals driving the design

  * Should behave close to a normal function pointer.
    Small, efficient, no heap allocation, no exceptions.
    Does not keep track of referred object lifetime.
    
  * Implement type erasure. The delegate needs to only contain
    enough type information to do a call. Additional type information
    should be hidden from the one instantiating a delegate object.

  * Support several call mechanisms. Supports:
    - Call to a member function.
    - Call to a free function.
    - Call to a functor (by reference).
    - Call to a stateless lambda.
    - Extra call operations such as passing on a stored void pointer.
    
  * It is always safe to call the delegate. In the null state, a call will not
    do anything and return a default constructed return value.
    
  * Behave like a normal pointer type. Can be copied, compared for equality,
    called, and compared to nullptr.
    
  * Observe constness. Stored const objects references can only be called by
    by const member functions or via operator() const.
    
  * Delegate have two main way to set a function to be called:
    - set: Member function for setting a new value to an already existing delegate.
    - make: Static functions for constructing new delegate objects.
    Do note that constructors aren't used for function setup. See discussion later
    on why.
    
  * Be usable with C++11 while offering more functionality for later editions.
    - C++11 offer most functionality.
    - C++14 add constexpr on 'set' functions.
    - C++17 allow for simpler member function setup using template&lt;auto&gt;.
    
  * Discourage lifetime issues. Will not allow storing a reference to a temporary
    (rvalue-reference) to objects.
    
  * Be constexpr and exception friendly. As much as possible should be declared constexpr and noexcept. 
  
## mem_fkn (Prev. MemFkn)

A helper class to store a call to a member function without supplying an actual object to call on. It is a stand-alone class that can encapsulate a member function.
It has an 'invoke' member which accept an object and the stored member function is
called on that object, similar to std::invoke.
It can be stored, compared and copied around. Could e.g. be set up
in an std::map for lookup and later supplied an object to be called on.
mem_fkn uses a single free function pointer for storage and behaves as a standard value type.
It could be useful on its own to avoid having to deal with member pointer syntax in user code.

The main intended use is as an argument to delegate. A mem_fkn and an object can be given to the delegate class to tie an object to the member function and later the delegate
can be called in the normal way. mem_fkn offers a way to delay the combination of
the object and the member function name.
mem_fkn require more type information compared to delegate. In addition, to call the signature it requires the type of the object to call on and a bool to signal if the functions stored
is a const method.

Detailed [API for mem_fkn](doc/mem_fkn.md).

## Delegate examples

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    int testFkn(int x)
    {
       return x + 1;
    }

    int main()
    {
        // Only need to know enough type information to construct
        // the signature used during a call of the delegate. E.g.

        delegate<int(int)> del;
        int res = del(23);  // No delegate set, do default behavior.
        // res is now 0.

        if (!del)  // del return false if no fkn is stored. 
            del.set<testFkn>(); // Set a new function to be called.

        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 2.
    }

The base case for free functions is covered above. For member functions see below.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    struct Test
    {
        int member(int x)
        { return x + 2; }
        int cmember(int x) const
        { return x + 3; }
    };

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del;
        Test t;
        const Test ct;

        del.set<Test, &Test::member>(t);
        int res = del(1);
        // res is now 3.

        del.set<Test, &Test::cmember>(ct);
        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 4.
        
        // For C++17, we can deduce the object type, the following will work.
        del.set<&Test::member>(t);
        del.set<&Test::cmember>(ct);
        // ...
    }

For functors, the delegate expects the user to keep them alive.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    struct TestF
    {
        int operator()(int x)
        { return x + 2; }
        int operator()(int x) const
        { return x + 3; }
    };

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del;
        TestF t;
        const TestF ct;

        del.set(t);
        int res = del(1); 
        // res is now 3.

        del.set(ct);
        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 4.
    }

The delegate can rely on stateless lambdas to convert to function pointers. In this
case, we use runtime storage of the function pointer. Do note it will be less
easy for the compiler to optimize compared to a fully static setup.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    int testFkn(int x)
    {
       return x + 5;
    }

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del;

        del.set(testFkn);
        int res = del(1); 
        // res is now 6.

        del.set(static_cast<int(*)(int)>([](int x) -> int { return x + 6; }));
        res = del(1);
        // res is now 7.

        // Or, use 'set_fkn' to get implicit conversion.
        del.set_fkn([](int x) -> int { return x + 7; });
        res = del(1);
        // res is now 8.
    }

For the runtime case, there is no constructor template argument to give,
So delegate supports passing in a compatible free function pointer. This
will accept stateless lambdas also via function pointer conversion.
There is no lifetime issue with stateless lambdas.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    int testFkn(int x)
    {
       return x + 5;
    }

    int main()
    {
        delegate<int(int)> del{testFkn};
        res = del(1); 
        // res is now 6.

         auto del2 = delegate<int(int)>{ [](int x) -> int { return x + 6; } };
        res = del2(1);
        // res is now 7.
    }

Except for the set function, one can use 'make' static functions to build delegate
objects directly. The most common one given below.

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"

    // .. types as before.

    int main()
    {
        using Del = delegate<int(int)>;
        Del del;

        Test t;  // For members.
        TestF functor; // For functor.

        del = Del::make<testFkn>();
        del = Del::make<Test, &Test::member>(t);
        del = Del::make<&Test::member>(t); // C++17

        del = Del::make(functor);

        del = Del::make(static_cast<int(*)(int)>([](int x) -> int 
                 { return x + 6; }));
        del = Del::make_fkn([](int x) -> int { return x + 6; });
    }

## Aid for porting legacy code

The delegate offer some extra set/make functions to aid in porting legacy code.
You can make a delegate call a free function with either a void* first argument,
or an explicit first argument object. This argument is given by the delegate
internal context pointer. e.g:

    struct Test {
        int member(int x)
        { return x + 2; }
    };
    
    int fknWithObject(Test& obj, int val) 
    { return obj.member(val); }
    
    int fknWithVoid(void* ctx, int val) 
    { return static_cast<Test*>(ctx)->member(val); }
    
    int main() 
    {
        Test obj;
        delegate<int(int)> del;

        del.set_free_with_void<fknWithVoid>(static_cast<void*>(&obj));
        int res = del(1);
        // res is now == 3.
        
        del.set_free_with_object<Test, fknWithObject>(obj));
        res = del(2);
        // res is now == 4.
     }

This allows you to replace legacy callbacks one step at a time. 
You can make a driver use delegates while the user code still uses void* context pointers.
It should allow for a decoupled refactoring of the driver/user code.
These have the same const behavior and set/make variants as the rest of the setup functions.
We use longer names to ease refactoring.

## Extending with a custom wrapper function

Especially lecacy code can have weird calling conventions in their legacy callbacks.
The delegate allow you to write external 'make' functions with their own custom
adapter function. The adpater gets access to the stored void* pointer and can then freely
use the void pointer and the parameters from the call.
The wrapper function must follow the calling convention used internally in the delegate.
Below is an example from the test suite where the private stateless lambda act as an adapter function:

    #include "delegate/delegate.hpp"  
    
    delegate<int(int)> make_exchange(int& store)
    {
        using Del = delegate<int(int)>;
        typename Del::Trampoline adapterFkn = [](const typename Del::DataPtr& v,
                                                 int val) -> int 
        {
            int* p = static_cast<int*>(v.ptr());
            std::swap(*p, val);
            return val;
        };
        return Del{adapterFkn, static_cast<void*>(&store)};
    }
    
    TEST(delegate, use_extension)
    {
        int t = 2;
        delegate<int(int)> del = make_exchange(t);
        EXPECT_EQ(t, 2);
        EXPECT_EQ(del(5), 2);
        EXPECT_EQ(t, 5);
    }

## Using a custom namespace for delegate

Currently the delegate and mem_fkn classes are placed in the global namespace.
The header file does not include anything else so it is possible to
include it into another namespace. The unit test checks this and seems to work.

## Performance and code generation

For the moment there are no proper measurement on timing. What has been done
is to just paste in the delegate code into [compiler explorer](https://godbolt.org/)
and look at the assembly output. The setup used gcc 7.2.1 on ARM compiling for Cortex-M4
and -O2 optimization.

In general using static template setup compared to a runtime pointer allow the compiler to generate
smaller code. Some specific notes:

- If the compiler can see the target function body, it can inline it within the wrapper function and in that case, directly jump to the useful code.
- Without arguments, the wrapper functions becomes one assembly instruction to just
forward the branch in all cases.
- With additional arguments:
  - Member functions: No resuffling is needed, one extra instruction to load the _this_ pointer.
  - Functors: No resuffling is needed, one extra instruction to load the _this_ pointer.
  - Free functions: Some argument reshuffling is needed unless the target can be inlined.
  - Runtime free functions: Resuffling is needed in the common wrapper function.
  - Extra void/object set methods, no reshuffling is needed. Just load the pointer.

- Testing callables for equal etc is often reduced down to comparing pointers. With the static
  setup this can often be a compile time calculation.

So in most cases you should get decent code generation. In the case of free, non-inlined
functions it is worth considering to just use an ordinary function pointer unless the
extra generality is needed.

## A note on skipping constructors

Not using constructors to set up functions is due to how a template 
arguments are used.
The delegate require class template arguments for the class and then
function address argument for the set/make function template.

Doing this with a constructor means the user needs to supply both
the class and constructor argument at the same time.
The syntax (if it is even possible) is not run of the mill.

Using a static member function it becomes easier:

    auto del = delegate<int(int)>::make<freeFkn>();

    // Pseudocode for constructor alternative:
    auto del = delegate<int(int)> /* some way to get <freeFkn> */ ();

The price to pay for normal static member function is the extra '::make'.
Another reason is that you can 'borrow' type information.

    auto del = delegate<int(int)>{};
    auto del2 = del.make<freeFkn>();

For normal runtime variables, there is no constructor template type to
pass, so delegate does support passing in a runtime variable function pointer
of the right signature. It also allows implicit conversion from stateless lambdas
in this case.

### Alternative make_delegate free function

In the spirit of smart pointer, one could use 'make_delegate' to construct a 
delegate. However, there is one thing to keep in mind. 
The address of a function is given by the combination of the signature and
the name. Hence make delegate would need to take both. E.g.

    auto del = make_delegate<int(int), freeFkn>();

Omitting the signature could work, but would be ambiguous as soon as the function is overloaded, severely affecting maintainability.
This will not offer extra functionality over using the 'make' functions
so there is currently no effort in supporting this.

## Do not take the address of things in std

In C and traditional C++, function pointers and taking function addresses are normal operation. Do note it can affect maintainability of your code.
In particular, it is not allowed to take the address of functions
(member/free functions) in std. The standard only allows calls, not taking the address of callables in std. 
It allows the implementation to change a free function
into e.g. a functor in a compatible way.

In general, taking the address will tie down your implementation to the
current presented interface. It will also prevent adding default arguments.

So, when starting to pass around pointers to callable things, keep this in mind.
It works, it will continue to work but do plan for future maintenance.

From a technical side, using the template method used here, we do not actually
take the address. It wraps the supplied call into a free function and stores an address
to that. Hence we take an address of a user-defined free function.
Still, when the standard changes a free function into a functor you will still
have the same issue. Only now, the template pattern matching fails instead of
the compiler failing to find the right function.
To get scared, see [Titus Winters talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWvSSsKCiAw)
on what can go wrong.

Delegate does require you to specify signature before accepting a function name
so the worst problems becoming ambiguous when adding new functions should
be mitigated.

So normal engineering practices are still valid. Decide on what you consider
foreign code, put adapters on it so you have a single point to change when
it changes. Decide what you consider stable/key interfaces in your code and let that
be used more freely.
